the project gutenberg ebook of alice's adventures in wonderland
    
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the united states and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or reuse it under the terms
of the project gutenberg license included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. if you are not located in the united states,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this ebook.

title: alice's adventures in wonderland

author: lewis carroll


        
release date: june 27, 2008 [ebook #11]
                most recently updated: june 26, 2025

language: english

other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/11

credits: arthur dibianca and david widger


*** start of the project gutenberg ebook alice's adventures in wonderland ***

[illustration]




alice’s adventures in wonderland

by lewis carroll

the millennium fulcrum edition 3.0

contents

 chapter i.     down the rabbithole
 chapter ii.    the pool of tears
 chapter iii.   a caucusrace and a long tale
 chapter iv.    the rabbit sends in a little bill
 chapter v.     advice from a caterpillar
 chapter vi.    pig and pepper
 chapter vii.   a mad teaparty
 chapter viii.  the queen’s croquetground
 chapter ix.    the mock turtle’s story
 chapter x.     the lobster quadrille
 chapter xi.    who stole the tarts?
 chapter xii.   alice’s evidence




chapter i.
down the rabbithole


alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into
the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or
conversations in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought alice
“without pictures or conversations?”

so she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
making a daisychain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a white rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

there was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did alice think it
so very much out of the way to hear the rabbit say to itself, “oh
dear! oh dear! i shall be late!” (when she thought it over afterwards,
it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the
time it all seemed quite natural); but when the rabbit actually took a
watch out of its waistcoatpocket, and looked at it, and then hurried
on, alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she
had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoatpocket, or a
watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a
large rabbithole under the hedge.

in another moment down went alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again.

the rabbithole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very
deep well.

either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what
was going to happen next. first, she tried to look down and make out
what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and bookshelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. she took down a jar from one of the shelves as she
passed; it was labelled “orange marmalade”, but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear
